Docs cloudlab tutorial (#2)
EthanBaron14/openNetVM: docs/source/cloudlabtutorial/index.rst

Cloudlab Tutorial 
=====================================

Getting Started
-----------------

> - This tutorial assumes that you have access to the openNetVM `CloudLab <https://cloudlab.us/>`_ 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This tutorial assumes that you have access the NSF sponsored `CloudLab <https://cloudlab.us/>`_  testbed
```

>     - To gain access, you must first create an account, choose to join a project and enter "GWCloudLab" to request access

Reviewer: We only want GW students to use the "GWCloudLab" organization, everyone else will need one from their own university.
```suggestion
    - To gain access, you must first create an account, and join a project from your university. See `the CloudLab Docs http://docs.cloudlab.us/users.html` for more information
```

Setting up SSH Keys for CloudLab
-----------------

> CloudLab allows you to upload an SSH key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do not already have an SSH key associated with your account you will need to create one. Here are the steps to create an SSH key and upload it to CloudLab.
```

- Open a terminal and cd to the directory you want to store the keys in

>     Generally, on a Windows machine, all SSH-related files are found in following location: /c/Users/PC_USER_NAME/.ssh/

Reviewer: Add a note for MacOS / linux users about where to find this info -- you can just say `~/.ssh`

    
To generate an SSH Key:

- Type :code:`ssh-keygen` to make an ssh-key

- Give it a name and an optional password

- The public key has the extension .pub

To upload the key:

- Go to cloudlab, and click on your username in the top-right corner

- Go to "manage SSH keys"

- Press "Load from file" and select the public key file

- Once it's loaded in, select "add key"

.. image:: ../images/cloudlab-ssh.png
   :width: 600

Starting a ONVM Profile With 1 Node on CloudLab
-----------------

- Click on experiments in the upper-left corner, then start an experiment

> - For "select a profile" you can choose the desired profile (onvm is the most updated/recommended)

Reviewer: I think most people will not have the onvm profile listed (you see it because you are part of the GWCloudLab group).  Instead of telling them to select a profile, give them the direct link to the profile here (https://www.cloudlab.us/p/GWCloudLab/onvm)

- For "parameterize" use 1 host, and for node type, you can keep it as is or select a different one. 

>     If you're running into trouble runnign the manager, selecting the c220g5 node may assist you

Reviewer: "runnign" typo. You should run your full doc through a spell checker.  I use the "Code Spell Checker" extension for VS Code and it works pretty well.

    
- For "finalize" you can just click next

- For "schedule," you don't have to make a schedule, leaving it blank will start it immediately 

Connecting to the Node via VSCode
-----------------

Before connecting, you must have uploaded your SSH key, and started an experiment
You also must have these VSCode extensions:
    Remote - SSH
    Remote - SSH: Editing Configuration Files (may come preinstalled with Remote SSH)
    Remote - Containers

>     Remote - WSL

Reviewer: I'm not sure if the Containers and WSL extensions are necessary.

Reviewer: and in general let's try to be OS agnostic, so if WSL is needed for windows we should say "(if using Windows)"

Author: I also don't know which extensions are necessary, should I just preface those 2 extensions with "these might be useful/helpful/necessary" ?

There are 2 easy ways to connect:

1) Via a terminal

- Open a VSCode terminal and cd inside your .ssh folder 

- :code:`ssh -p 22 -i <privatekeyname> <user>@<address>`

- Your <user>@<address> can be found by going to your experiment and clicking on "list view," it should be under "SSH Command"

.. image:: ../images/ssh-connect.png

>    :width: 600

Reviewer: I suggest you move this part up to the end of the prior section. Have it there just to show a quick way for users to test that their experiment started correctly.  Then have this section just be about VS Code remote dev

Author: Do you need the VSCode SSH extension to remotely connect via the command line? If that is the case, then it should go after the extensions section.

Reviewer: no, you won't need the SSH extension to use SSH in the console (the extension just allows you to connect your entire VS Code window to a remote server.

   :width: 600

2) Via a Remote Window

- Open the "Remote Explorer" via the sidebar (on the left by default)

- In the drop-down window at the top, select SSH Targets

.. image:: ../images/vscode-remote-explorer.png
   :width: 600

- To the right of the SSH Targets bar, click the plus button, and enter :code:`ssh <user>@<address>`

- Select a configuration file (recommanded to use the one in the .ssh folder as mentioned earlier)

- Modify the config file so that it has the correct settings:
    It should have :code:`Port 22` :code:`IdentityFile <privatekeyname>` and :code:`AddKeysToAgent Yes` (on seperate lines)
    
    You can also rename :code:`Host` to whatever you want, but :code:`HostName` must not be changed

.. image:: ../images/config.png
   :width: 600
    
-  If it asks you to choose an operating system, select Linux

Running the ONVM Manager and Speed Tester NF on the node
-----------------
Once you are properly connected to the node, it's time to run the manager

- First, cd into /local/onvm/openNetVM/scripts and run :code:`source setup_cloudlab.sh`

- Depending on which node you're using, it will ask you to bind certain network devices to dpdk 

>     In general, you want to make sure that the 2 10 GbE devices are bound (the letters/numbers before listing the device can be used as identifiers)

Reviewer: For this guide you only had them request a server with one node, so there isn't much point binding the NIC ports (since the user won't have another node to send traffic to this one).  I think you can have these instructions just say that for this guide we won't be working with real network traffic so we do not need to bind any ports.
